Welcome back everyone.
In the last lesson we learned how to use graft fuel to pull in our markdown files and then use them
and their data to populate out this list of our blogs.
Now we're only displaying the excerpts so we're not actually explaining the body of our blogs.
We're gonna do that in an individual blog page.
And the way we're gonna do that is we're actually going to need to leverage this new concept where what
we're gonna do is hijack the build step.
Whenever we built out our Gatsby blog when we ran yarn develop for the first time we are going to come
in here when it creates those nodes which represent the files that we've written in the first place.
And we're going to grab the markdown and we're gonna build out each individual page at that moment in
order for us to do this.
We actually need to modify our node Gatsby file.
So in here you'll see that there's this Gatsby.
No J In this file this is code that will run theoretically on the Node server that represents the Gatsby
framework.
Now two things to note here.
The first is that the code that we're going to write is not real code so it might not be something you
recognize if you are only used to writing react.
There's a little bit of back and note code here that we're writing but it's not completely node either
because it has to do with the node API inside of Gatsby.
So you can easily take a look at the documentation here.
If you follow this link inside of your Gatsby No j s but let's just get started because once we actually
write this code I'm certain you'll at least be able to follow along with what's happening because it
is javascript.
So let's just get rid of this and what we're gonna say is exports dot on create node so Gatsby is expecting
that if you export this method on create node it is equal to a function and they're going to pass this
function a bunch of properties one of them being the node itself when ever it's creating the node.
Now as you remember when we did our graph q a query for our files each file had a node which was a representation
of that file.
So what we're going to do is we're just going to simply console dot log that node object.
There's a property on there called internal which just represents data about the actual node itself.
And we want the type.
So now if we refresh our server what we're going to see is when it's building we see this list of all
of these different things that we're logging out now.
These are all the types of node that we have available.
And the main ones that we want are the markdown remarks because as you remember the markdown files is
what we want to use to build out our pages.
So what we're gonna say is we're gonna say if the node dot internal dot type is equal to markdown remark
then what we're gonna do is we are actually going to create this thing called a slug a slug inside of
Gatsby is the U R L or the link that the browser is able to access from our application in order to
navigate to the page required.
Now we have to dynamically build out the slug and attach it to the node as a field because we want to
access that field inside of our application so that whenever we try to root to it or linked to it.
We're always passing to the correct path.
So we want to build that path out dynamically we actually get access inside of this on create node function.
This other property called actions.
And these are actions that we will receive from Gatsby.
The one that we want to pluck off is this action called Create node field create no field is exactly
as it sounds.
We want to add a new field to our node so we wanted to restructure this off of our actions and what
we're going to do is build the field path to our node this field path is what we're going to be using
inside of our application to navigate to this page.
Now the only thing to keep in mind is that inside of Gatsby this thing is called a slug and a slug is
essentially just some kind of file path or navigation path inside the application that allows us to
route to it we actually get access to this function that we get from Gatsby's source file system Gatsby's
source file system as you remember was this plugin that we used to actually get access to our files
in the first place.
So in order to bring it in we are going to d structure off create file path from this Gatsby source.
They'll see here that I use back ticks now back ticks is actually what Gatsby prefers you to use when
instantiating strings.
In fact you should probably change our markdown remark over to using tactics as well.
And this is simply due to the pretty configuration rules that are set with Gatsby when we loaded it
by default.
Now you can actually find these rules inside of this pretty r c file in your base root folder and prettier
if you're not sure what that is is pretty much just the tool that allows you to consistently enforce
certain typing and stylings regarding the way that you write code pretty is really great if you have
an application with many developers that have different ways that they'd like to write things with prettier.
Whenever you save or whenever you actually type anything you might get warnings telling you that you
cannot do certain things.
So for example if I ever try to make this a single string whenever I save pretty or force that to be
double quotes.
So if we switch over to using back text that's perfectly fine too.
You'll actually find that when you look through your gas files any file that gets generated by Gatsby
is using back ticks so it doesn't hurt doesn't actually impact performance in any way so let's just
switch over tactics but now that we have our Cray file path function from Gatsby source file system
what we want to do is we actually want to generate that new slug.
Now the slug itself as I mentioned was the root.
Now the route we're gonna use our create file path method and what might this create file path the method
takes is a object as the argument.
The first thing it takes is a node as the first property the node property essentially just points to
the actual node that we're trying to convert into a file path.
So as you saw with our pages while Gatsby does under the hood is it takes the name of the actual file
and it turns it into the literal name of the ropes to that page as well.
So if it's page Dash 2 as the file name the actual route to the URL is also Page 2.
So we're going to pass it the node.
We're also going to pass it the method that it needs to fetch the node.
Now this is pretty much in the API docs and you just have to follow along what it does is you have to
get this get node function that we also get from on create note and we're gonna pass that as the second
argument yet node is just a function that allows you to pull the actual node object representation of
a file or an edge.
Now you remember when we looked at our actual graph Q We saw that we had nodes right.
And then we have these edges get node is just a way to get this literal node object it just uses it
under the hood to actually get the required node that it wants.
Third Field is an optional field which is called base path and base path is something that you add when
you want to add a base path to the URL.
In our case there's no need for it.
So we can just ignore that property and just pass this in as our slug.
Now we're finally going to actually create the node feel on our node.
So what we're going to do is just call it create node field and we're gonna pass this an object where
the first property is the node pointing to the same node.
We're also going to put the name.
So this is the name of the property that we want to add and we want to add it called slug.
And the value is going to be the slug itself that we just created using create file path.
So with this when ever we actually end up creating all of our nodes we will end up appending onto that
node a new slug property with the value of our strength.
So now if we actually restart our server and we check out our graph queue once this is finished we'll
be able to see it on all of our markdown notes that new field that we added so let's just let this finish
building.
OK now if we refresh you'll see on this node that there's this new thing called fields and in fields
is slug which is our new property that we just added.
So any field that you add to a node goes under this Field's property.
And now if we refresh we'll see inside of our slug we have the actual route that we need to use to navigate
to the actual root path that we declared.
Now what we have to do is actually build the pages dynamically because now that we've set up our node
we have to actually set up the actual page that we built.
So we'll do that in the next lesson.